You know you get a car when you boil it and ask you know or half a swimming pool and then at the end when you pull it all you left it's like a teaspoon full of you.
Hi I'm Chas Fisher.
And I'm Stu Willis.
And this is draft 0 a podcast way to Aussie filmmakers try to work out what makes great screenplays work.
And today we are joined by the inestable in it I can say.
Inestimable.
Stephen Cleary once again on Drive 0.
Thank you great to be here.
We are happy we are talking dialogue and I live in films and this may end up being part 1 of the two part thing.
Are under eyelid with Stephen are talking about the role of cinematic Dialogue in films and kind of stuff I guess we can be starting.
Anyway the beginning trying to lay some groundwork for framework think about dialogue and we can be looking at the films Nottinghill analyse this and The Avengers.
I'm really excited about this episode kids Steven you've been running a Super 8 whole dialogue workshop is that correct.
Yeah that's right now been doing it for a few years now they got me interested in it actually mainly because I came into the no.
Thinking about dialogue on wanting to find stuff out about it so I went and looked at some books about it and as ever with film a practice.
I was gonna mildly not mildly very disappointed in Wanaka find it it's the worst.
They were you thinking about it online but they were online as always it's like you know if I have things to do this is actually what it was a kind of detailed look at it and there isn't really anything out there so I can have had to go away and.
Stop thinking about him looking at myself really and this is quite often the truth the case with things that I do because there is any way I can grab from so I have to go get able to do the hard yards myself and order try and work out with work.
I know what I really like about.
What we learnt about today is it feels like darling is one of those things that from the outside the perception is all either some writers do great Dialogue in some writers don't have it something in hand and it's something that you.
Can't teach tools to improve it and I think today we're going to work through some stuff where.
It is like anything I'm in a remember you had a different exercise on characters and we've applied it a lot that you know of characters is not something that.
Get outside development people should be able to come in and it's just a pervy of the right it and you.
In a lecture one said if you just write down the list of decisions that that character makes then that is how the audience experience of the character and that is something that you can look at externally and assess externally and as a writer it empowers you to.
Address issues where your characters is not coming across the way that you wanted to so I'm excited to do the same thing with dialogue.
A bully for me I mean I've always personally felt the tile is one of the week aspects of my writing and unstructured I med have opinions about the structure of the dialogue but generally cause I work with her right as I can't leave her the dialogue to Mum and Matt mate.
Truth comes out.
The insecurity like this is kind of what I want it to say but I think.
I mean there is something but it's a natural gift for dial and interns of character voice I mean often when I think we talked about.
Rise of a gift for dialogue they had it baby forgot their own distinctive voice so in talking everyone sounds like talking characters and in Tarantino everyone time sounds like a Tarantino character even writers like Joss Whedon which is why we did.
Avengers he is very much about every character sound the same and.
Tell the same wish I was dead.
Found sound.
Ok
And to me about was something I felt insecure about and.
Padding now look dumb some of the dryland workshop with you also got some tools to help me improve my dialogue it's not probably like all these tools they're not necessarily generative tools that hopefully will touch on some of that.
They are very analytical tools to help you rewrite dialogue so.
I don't like most parts of writing is that you know there are some people who ever again is it naturally.
But there but you can work out what it is they're very good at it's not like because every good at you know you do get people who are better at instinctively writing dialogue I'm in a starting position is better.
Than others but that's not to say that that then becomes a mystery that you why they have this gift till you don't you don't you look at some of these really good at all I can work out what it is that she's a really good at.
Auspost saying all this is a mysterious girl that I can never master most right side of string.
And the and weaknesses most like as if you ask them would say I think I'm better this and that and I was having trouble with this in whatever interests in my world right as I quite often find them wrong if that were the right YG identifies as their weakness.
Is not a study weakness and wanted in find the strength is not as we have strep quite often when it is printed weakness what I enjoy writing what I don't enjoy right.
Were they comfortable with.
Yeah what a comfortable with it actually quite often rights as a good at things they don't think they good at and not as brilliant as things that they think they are bigger.
Events that are coming with these specific term it's one of the cognitive biases dead by being good at believe in yourself to be good at something you're actually we can your ability in it because you become a Big W become lazy.
I can come by to you and weaknesses and when you can't believe your weekend something can you actually try to make up for a lot of the 4th.
I guess that's why most right to sit there we could everything.
Subconsciously just ate my brilliant.
So I guess where do we start.
Where do we start if Cinema dialogue is a kind of distinct Beast from theatrical dialogue what whatever it's hallmarks what did you find that.
Broadleaf broadly speaking um I'm going to be making huge analysation cross but I never stop it stop before broadly speaking as soon as I like a shorter.
You know much shorter it's not just short on the sides to speech is done to get shorter so that a long speech you know more than 10 lines on a screenplay.
Which is your name I suppose not knoq speed is either is a huge lump of Dialogue in in cinema times but also when you look at the number syllable.
That you will find an average Cinema dialogue speech it's unusual to get words of more than 3 syllables very unusual 4 syllable words words are quiet and starkly.
In many in a password or a producer in place.
It's a good indication of a difference between unproduced Cinema writer and producer Cinema writer is the temperature screenplays that you read by people wanting to be screenwriters will tend to have more 457 words in a screenplay.
Take it everything is compressed this is Ikon the point of it is compressed and it's highly stylised.
Even what looks like naturalistic dialogue when you look at it a comparison to where the people speak in the kinds of words they use it's very compressed it is very stylizen and the point is you always driving towards simplicity.
And that creates an effect and all of that I think is much more poetic.
Done anything else it's it kind of what the object of Cinema dialogue is to do is what poetry does which is just suggest as much as to stay.
This much more artificer dialogue than people think that's annoying people think that if for example they understand how people really talk in real life and they want to write that receipt dialogue they kind of do that then what you'll have as natural of anyone.
That's not the dialogue.
I'm the nurse n.
Dialogue it is a constructed thing.
It's not about it's not an apology you don't go and record people on this on the bus and then we produce what they say you are creating an illusion of reality and that's what I like is it some sense is the Illusion Of Speech.
It's not the best not a creation an accurate depiction of how people speak it's you it's an illusion of speech that you.
Persuade the audience is real but in fact is absolutely artificial and that's why do you know so much crafting a Polish in the process.
And I remember that when we were we were Film School in you came in late kidding you gave us example I'm gonna be completely murder it but you were basically talking about husband and wife driving home and.
It was about dialogue beat you then just started layering contacts onto the story am and back story and he got to the point where because of all the different facts of the audience knew about this couple in this car.
Didn't matter what they were talking about.
She was cheating on Spaceland she was cheating on husband she didn't know that the husband knew that she was cheating on husband and so.
Will basley paceman position is superior to the Tarantino example I mean it's all that kind of dramatic irony and then you basin set it up matter what they're saying because it could be meaning.
That Tarantino example if we talked about it what were actually back in so we would we were talking about before we start recording inglorious bastards and that scene in the prison cafe where the to kill a Jew Hunter do Hunter and.
The girl can't remember her name.
So they're that and that he's talking about the arrangements for the cinema screening and strudel and.
The audience knows that she's talking to the killer of her family and he's terrified for her life.
What up to the audience and is kind of suggested but not stated is he might know and he might suspect or he might not.
But regardless it doesn't matter what they're talking about at all even the slightest we did not say darling is completely irrelevant but that there is.
30 size dialogue is the underlying a movement to mechanics of a story.
That if you don't get this right if you don't for example create.
Seems a dramatic irony if you don't understand the move interstate it's in the scene and hug characters are constantly playing status if you don't create sub text in the way the scene at organise we'll talk about all of those things.
Maybe a little more detail then you don't have anything to build on but on top of that you then have ok with Donald at work with creative subjects with got seems really important structure to see his work now we know where the action of the scene is going we've done all that work.
Now how do these people actually talk.
Know if you haven't done done and alone work you'll see your dollar will b flat no matter how good you are it you know creating notice of character I can a poetic residents in the way that is because the scene isn't resting on anything else other Dalek has no really because one of your done underlying work and then,
the dollar can dig down into the area then on top of that you don't have said ok what how does this person speak and how do I un how do I design.
Organise the way they talk to reflect the character so that and how do I individuate this character in the scene vs another car.
And that requires an understanding of the first of all the character that you have so what is the social context that this scene is taking place in what is the education of this.
So what kinds of words would they use in a what class are they from what's the relationship to go to person this in so this is an older man talking to a younger woman.
How does man Jenna regard younger women in relation to himself and society.
Does he regard them is something to be pushed around as you're going to sell this and that you superior how is that Express not in in Bull terms like condescending sentences but how is that Express in terms of specific words they would hear.
Sweetheart.
Exactly that kind of thing where you usually do you put them does this man unconsciously.
Press his high level of Education when he's talking to people he thinks so not as important as he is so what are you slightly more important words that he would not use if you were talking to a general.
You know where he would tend to simplify his language because he's at he's talking to it at least on his own level possibly higher so he would he would not want to be picked up cuz that person may turn around him so why don't you use simpler word in this country.
You know because the dude there is that possibility that he's on at a different kind of social level to the social context the character education they have their classes you did gender attitude order these things in form,
the choices of the words the characters would use and it's not just because you say what what would would they use,
at the dollar great you're saying all the time I might and I like I'm reinforcing for the audience who my character is so I'm going to use these words to illustrate the fact.
But he is of this social class but he is of this generation does he does feel this way about younger people particularly women he does feel this way about himself at set.
So every line of dollar the current user's amplifying and informing the orders again and again this is the character and of course for the actor.
To him scrutinizes every word every word is a clue to the character so if you don't do that writing with the kind of concern necessary that are good at.
I want to change the line because it is not doing enough it doesn't inform enough doesn't allow me to understand the character and if you mention as a writer.
Imagine if you can set your screenplay to an actor and there was no descriptive Frozen it was like a fish literally so all the actor has to understand the character of the things they say.
It's ok if the character if the actor read that script would they understand who they were.
Without having any introduction contacts would they be able to work out having read the entire script in their character what social classes person was what background they had what kind of age level of Education they have what they thought about things if your dollar doesn't do that.
Tell us your not giving the actor enough to work with.
I think that's a good challenges I don't know final draught or some of the soft screenwriting Subway can do this but just like taking the lines and the scene take all the the big print all the action.
Out of a screenplay and just look at the dialogue and see the characters constructed.
I'm coming Judith Western who's there a teacher but also directing actors teacher that mention her before she actually says when you get a screenplay is a director is an actor does cross out all the big print.
Just look at the dialogue to inform your character and all the prep and all the power of tentacles and all that stuff make specifically ignore everything.
Button dialogue when I get to the root the characters so it's certainly think that people are taught to do as a way of engaging with character so here.
Flight flight 50.
Well it's now talking about characterisation but there's other functions of dialogue I mean giving maybe my interest in science fiction and Thrillers univ expositions a big thing and that's something we get us all about a lot like how do you handle exposition how do you make exposition.
Good and often dialogues criticized as being too expository you know what are they kinda I guess.
Maybe trying to find out what good dialogue is in a what are hallmarks of bag dialogue or is it one of those things are bad dialogue is not good. Which comes first if that makes sense.
The trick to make dialogue always good I would say if you can eat a place to have some tea.
You know it is to have a line where there are two things going on at any given moment is the meaning of what is being spoken.
And there is the unspoken meaning of what is going on at that moment so if you're trying to do exposition if he wants to have a character say um I don't know the cheese is in the fridge.
Because we have to let you on his know the cheese in the fridge have to create a contact whereby when the character says the cheese in the fridge them in something else.
So for example yeah I don't know the it's it's a way of using anything like that when it's a Weber character.
Canada meeting another character in the C&C 3 people to see in one guys financing clever.
Different the girl on cedilla guy uses the fact that he knows the cheese in the fridge to cut the other guy from under the cut his knees from Monday then so when it says the cheese in the fridge two things happen thirsty when it's go overseas in the fridge exactly what is go he doesn't like that guy.
And as long as there's another thing under the surface is it doesn't as a Whatsapp text Will meaning that you want to understand then that the line have dimension.
And I think the trouble exposition is not that is exposition but the trouble that position normally hasn't dialogue is it there's nothing else in going on in the line.
So they won't when it's delivered it's just simply bold exposition that's the problem there's nothing wrong exposition in dialogue I mean if you use it to excessive obviously.
The writing is weird but nothing inherently wrong in it as long as you find a way of giving the line Dimension in complexity so that you would you give you one is something else did to think about.
So maybe now is a good point for us to Segway into analyse the 1st about scripts because this because I think what you kind of driving at there's plot exposition.
Right which is a stop ringing to know to keep the plumbing for but there's also kind of courage exposition Matraville and character actually giving.
Xmas break away when reviewing exposition another word for reveal input information and characterizations another word for reviewing character information.
So maybe we should look at cos I think it's it's an early scene and it's clearly setting up a both aspects.
Beer on man stand your ground you don't have to let people rollover you say excuse me in session so you guys might be down here.
Upsy daisy hey what are you doing how are you doing anyways done with the session.
Give you 100 hours to get out it'll take a call to listen to me 300,
hey that's fucking crazy this is a patient private session.
You know me no you're not.
See my picture of paper yes or no.
We gonna positive but bucks boat recording equipment now.
I try to give you a friendly insurance information several times last night that several times it would take it.
I'm just going to feel like
yep in 10 minutes and we talk I like all the Teletubbies.
Cityside your fault but don't think we should just take this of their insurance.
It's one of my exact problems is going to have to probably think somebody couple questions.
This will be the wind said whatever makes you comfortable.
Comfortable.
I thought we start one to tell me why you think you need therapy.
I don't need therapy I just told you that it's for my friend I'm sorry you don't hear me say that and I'm sorry you know you guys are supposed to be so good at listening you can't even remember what I said you two seconds ago so sorry.
How your day going through the level service up to this point it was my fault I apologize.
Well we start over in Auntie just tell me about your friend.
Find user is a very powerful gay.
Nomad trouble dinner with nothing is falling apart Christ for no reason you can sleep.
You can be with his friends all of a sudden he gets nervous around them thank you want to get away from them.
You can breathe a sexy chest pains.
Satanic not dizzy chest breathing constricting it attacks this guy just wants to know when you can do to make it.
I'm going to go out on a limb here
I think your friend
is you.
Yo you gonna give my friend you gotta give oh yeah.
You saw that there was some that I was trying to do when you you figured that out that's why you are who you are god bless you are fucking gift yes you do yes you do.
I'm gonna go I think.
Medication could help dogs get a problem therapy.
No I don't think you want but I might my roster of patience is fall I'm just for right now so plus I'm leaving on a trifurcation reborn.
I don't share that with my patience why you gon caramel Hotel Miami Beach.
You know it's a funny cat of a thing but you know I feel better if I get all that off my chest I feel like a load off my shoulders.
You're good.
Buck Angel.
You're good no no you're good luck.
You're good I'm gonna be in touch with you I just want if I talk to you.
Redefine fag because some feelings make I know you're good.
This is what in.
Are you known Room in Rome common cause of acute me to see if it's a busy meeting to the right of job here is to throw the Jew character together an interesting way that's exciting I'm an intriguing for the audience and makes them by the end of the same thinking crikey when's this going to go now.
So that's what they did the general function of the scene but it's a very interesting because it first of all it plays beautifully on stage at switches.
Something we win it will be talking about NZ the choice is to have John Betty who is an extremely powerful mobster.
Robert De Niro for those are only hearing.
Walking into the office of a bent over so it's it's Sobels office until it says with his territory and it's his the place where he should be most comfortable and most relax and have the most power.
And what happens if this other person walks into his room is a enormous huge reversal.
It does initially I think it has a little Prelude why you have this guy jelly,
walk and that he throws out the first the patients in the room and then John Vicky Robert area walks in,
I needed the decision the scene again to to have a sleep early it is a kind of play on what's going to happen in a minute so ball is in his room in an intruder comes out and he deals with him or tries to deal with them and then I even bigger Intruder comes in.
So rather than it's a kind of little Prelude and it's quite funny because it's been is very active.
So what is reacted when the first into the companies like get out of here you can't come in here this is a bit late this is an office everything's happening here and he's very very active and he is talking a lot,
I've been very assertive and then as soon as he comes in this is again what type of dollars what people don't say as soon as he comes then he stops talking.
He goes from long sentences to short set.
Looking at it after I did it was really obvious but actually it's not letting you know you could write the sea in a number of different ways you could have so we'll come over jabbering when the man comes in and you know over talking right under talking but it's.
To set up with long sentences with mango two short sentences which one is this into it so bored this is in the sea now.
The long sentences which goes absolutely minimal sent yes no it hehe she said.
Minutes is interesting we talked about I'm looking at the crossover from page 25 26 and it goes from Ben.
They're saying it's got a three line sentence to Jelly listen if you're upset about your car I can understand that beat you don't just barge in here and then it dash dash gets interrupted Paul Beattie steps into the office then freezes videos.
You know who I am then says yes so like the transition is instant.
And what's interesting is it set up Ben when he's talking to Carl his first patient Ben is giving a long flying almost flying centres in essays you a lot of comments you speaking and call it's like you're right I do you're right I did.
I don't know we just seeing what a low status character that plays in the same that they don't talk very much.
And been doing all the talking and then Ben is basically put in the position of Carl and we know that subconsciously because we've seen car Tweed.
We just seen it.
We just seen in this situation that's done a shift so we have a high tennis coach of the Kama logo.
If you if you take this soon and you to call the dollar blinds out and you said I said of a server saying whatever the words are written on the page just say mumble.
7 weeks and Mum both as mumble mumble mumble mumble mumble mumble and you played the seeing you could you listen to it you would hear the movement of status and power in the Seas simply by the sounds they make.
I'm just listening for anything at to think about when you're writing or dialogue scenes is a rhythm here.
In a desert desert there's an underlying to the structural rhythm to the scene which is that it's. He starts as long as mumble mumble mumble mumble then it goes mumble mumble mumble mumble mumble mumble and then has the thing starts to develop and their relation to Unity character.
Gets more complex.
And so will start to come more into the sea he starts to speak longer sentences again and see where it goes from mumble mumble mumble mumble to Mumble to mumble mumble and then mumble mumble mumble at the end is mumble mumble and so the Eggheads a rhythm.
And what's the pleasure of the scene for the audience is not just what they're saying but it's just appreciation of the Rhythm.
If you look at the scene in a different ways it's actually built around a pack of 3 years rep repeated 3 years or all the way through this say it and it's rather like a song wouldn't have particular time with you it's if you look if you go to the very beginning of the.
Odyssey maze talking to her soul Blues talking to his patient and he says Kyle undertake impact of her you seem to settle to his me for things you're right I do.
See you did it again I suggest or something immediately agree you're right I did too why do you think you do this I don't know 3 so as long centre short reply long sounds awesome.
Long centre shortly.
Does a person Reserve I think it's your Dad and we have a sentence after that but she's ready three witches long sentence short reply long so the short reply long son it's shorter.
And then we have this sentence I think it's called it's your fear of rejection or feel disapproval but you don't have to worry about that be romanced and around hey don't let people roll over you.
I guess you have a long so it's it's it's long short long short long short long long long and then at that point.
Bang incomes Intruder to the point with the longest sentence in the sea up to this point it is delivered the Intruder walks and suddenly Everything takes off again.
How do you say what are you doing here I'm go back into some short as soon as hey, soul excuse me yeah I know I'm sorry I know you bingo says jelly I just like it's back to percussive short words again.
So it is kind of me later think of it like her a piece of jazz music with something at the rhythm and the movement of the language and and vitality the scene comes from that.
How often do right to say ok how many words do I have any sweet as what it would have a very the number of words how many one word sentences do I have in this in this is full of one word sentence.
2 word sentences in that gives if I can a dynamic movement because then you shift at the longer sentences so there's a kind of rhythmic movement under the sea the gym music in the scene.
It doesn't matter who the characters are.
I mean you're creating this music in the way you're bringing the characters together but the characters don't change because of the length of the sentence.
For the writer is giving a cat a resume beating can a patterns the underlying movement of the language that gives it about to the vitality this is what I mean about poetry.
This is what post they understand because of stress as the number of syllables in a line the variation of Settlers the move between the weather language has an innate rhythm under certain the words you choose this sound of those were not the meaning the sound of the word.
Affects the way the rhythm plays and that's how a poet writes and has a dial a writer as well as all the stuff we have to do,
there is also this underlying sense of the music of this of the scene would you landed in Incheon is modulated it or affected by the music of the characters the actual distinctive Potter this weekend at the characters and all of that is going on in the sea.
So how to what if this you know how the distinctive voices of Ben and vid and Cole kind of credit cause we've got the repetition of that same kind of three stretch with me you know me then yes.
Didn't know you don't ok you see my picture in the papers yes no you didn't you've got that rhythm and you know that.
You know the Jas kind of thing but then how do we also build our understanding of character.
Well I mean that's exactly I was going to say is going back to your other example about not just looking at what characters would say and how they talk it's how they talk in relation to who they're talking to that I think.
Create lot of characterisation and jelly and Betty from a class point of view.
Are similar background and usually band would consider himself above both those backgrounds I'm educated I'm not violent I'm civilized I'm in a profession duh duh duh duh duh and he plays that way to jelly.
He thinks it's just a guy bumped with his car and is going to resolve the hat like how do I talk to an essentially I know Alesso being and then.
Another version jelly comes in better version that is clearly higher power and then Ben and so the way that he change it.
I'm in a sentence a great deal going on in his his his what a sober does is characterisation and in dollar what's Abel Tasman jelly walks in is he seems jelly as lower class today what happened with a man into each other car the night before.
Eating said jelly is just some fat Italian American who drives a rather cheap car,
and what he thinks is because he's at a higher social class and because he's in his own office and feel comfortable what you think so Jenny just doesn't understand so when getting worse and he goes,
what you don't understand is as an officer and I'm doing things and he's talking to jelly and it's like it's it's slightly condescending you know you you being lower-class and uneducated don't understand what a psychiatrist might be done.
Do I have to let you know that you can't simply walk in here and do this.
I know I'm using the get up the money and says houses to buy how much money you need to leave I need Sophie razerzone status of changes of the power dynamic around.
What what the soul is doing is it he's trying to explain he's explaining an agitated way but he's trying to explain because he believes the guy doesn't understand soon as Vicki Ward.
Sebel realises mistake everything's about the Weasley.
Changes but that's what happens when is it how do we change that had to be able to inform the characters as a begins to approach the area that he is there to talk about which is his invulnerability.
This is what's lovely round the weather dialogue works is that you know he sent to start to get longer.
And he he he walks around and list again this is a beautiful thing about the right thing who's is the right to working out.
How do you move from a man who has an enormous amount of power a little a man walks in the room and almost think the 4th centre that makes solar system event services please don't kill me.
Ok so if you have a man when he walks into a people so please don't kill me how does that man relax a person enough.
In order to get them to be competetive a job in order to get it problems so what are you doing in the next few lines he's trying to relax.
So then what's happening is that sober Liz is taking a long time to write so when he says you don't.
Great lines and you have this report repeating of trees as a sudden just like you ain't got no bugs in here.
And it goes bugs and then vs bugs bugs recording equipment three letter.
This is a rhythm to the way you speaking up that free Rhythm is a bit within the lines and cells and then Ben Sanders is in reply to that,
is is a longer senses because suddenly were beginning to get into comfortable ground so there's no no I don't record I take notes mustard and then if I take notice meant Mr T I tried to give the guy the insurance information several times as I time he wouldn't take it.
Please don't kill me OK so see you have this is beginning to try and expand because he's trying to re-establish in his power and if I restart a Samsung relationship,
again it's still got this notion they don't understand these Italian Americans is lower class people they don't get it you know so he's now he's talking about the car accident you don't understand it's not important let me explain to you.
But do you think the vet DeLong the longer sentences it's not because Ben's feeling more comfortable or more powerful or even trying to say is power it's almost like it's almost a show weakness that he starts babbling.
He's trying to use trying to Fuse you a he don't you just got a bubble butt again which underlies this still is is the essential nature is character which is he believes he knows more than other peeps.
And that's this whole film is about a guy who puts too much trust and intellect in education and it's lost touch with his.
Basic emotional side it'll be forced to leave behind an education and it's trust and everything out and he's going to be forced to speak their language.
That's you know he's literally speak the way that you want this week to get a talk like a Matthews and so did this style of these being a producer that is way of speaking.
Connotes a way of thinking.
Which is that a small group with a simpler the world of the mafia in this film is Brooklyn a simple compared to the world oh so I can't get time to work out near the complex is Aveeno the human condition.
He's going to be he's gonna be forced into that world and is language is going to be forced into that will do and this is really important in the evolution of movement of characters through stories we might look,
blue blazer Richard Curtis again who plays in completely different contacts with the contact two people falling for each other romantic.
Then what happens is an x in a romance is an exchange I know you who you are reveal yourself to someone else you give you a self.
You give of yourself to someone else and if you look at the way the dialogue works and this story is the dialogue is given to each other they start using each other's words and phrases.
And again in the story with people are giving all themselves John vichie whether he likes it or not he's going to have to get close to a sauna Berlin and man and Ben's going to have to get close to this young back and balls an exchange of language.
And the dollar will express their the movement towards each other is a bit specially weather use each other's language.
Oh and you will have better using psychiatric expressions in any way that same using it as soon Lee Mack so John sorry man will do the same the other way.
So
How does ban in dialogue sorry not been busy I put down at his keys I mean like we've had the scene and we can hear it but is there anything we can take from it but the one thing I'm noticing is for the first part of the session.
It is 1 asking a lot of questions.
And then when they actually start the session is at work then Ben starts asking questions and it's almost like you can save whoever's got the status is.
It's not a general rule people who have no power can be the ones asking all the questions and it could be that the other persons exendin The Power by refusing to answer but.
It's almost like it's giving Power by letting him speak by giving him voice.
There's a visit this is a few things around that talk about one of which is generally how useful and common it is in screenwriting that seem to question.
It's really unusual to find a powerful seen that doesn't have a lot of questions in it and there's a reason for that which is that a question demands an answer.
So does would propose the story fallen as soon as you ask a question I got your if the question is answered.
Then you move into another hour of the sea so you've you're pulling the scene for whatever is not answered that it itself is an incident why is it not being answered the fat is not being answered if server character refuses to answer a question or Avoid those who create two subjects you a question.
Why is that character not answering that question so question is incredibly dynamic.
Kind of sentence to put into the entrance crap and so it must scream players and most things real power will get a lot of quest.
It also connect the characters together kind of in a one person as a question the other than has to reply and there's an obligation to reply which means a scene has a momentum and a power with it.
So so in this see what happens is.
As soon as I sit down and they start talking with you finally says I mister did the line he he says were again it's a Long Line so we stop being it is short sentence has a bin all about you know I'm in control and what is a Starburst control he done relax.
How many prob me has have to give up control because you have to give this guy the official needs to be good at what he does.
Unsettled he says rain about that I don't care about the car I got a friend it's too short sentences but it's a long speech a lot of sentences in this in this page.
About that I don't care about the car I got a friend this friend of mine he's got problems and he's like probably going to see a shrink so I'm going to have to ask you a couple of quest.
Ok so so suddenly we move this along speak only getting that in itself is it question is it ok if I ask you questions and so was ok go ahead and then did he get more questions what do we do now do we say.
Whatever makes you comfortable if he's giving them is giving the power of the Ban Ban is like what you do what you like in and he's asking then what do I do.
Navigate to question I'll send over here make it, fine and then the next section with lids is it to the middle the story isn't interesting one because Ben is trying to be expensive an unused long sentences and find out what he's doing.
Which is not you're entirely relax and he doesn't understand the world and the things that Ben sorry I keep calling a max with anything and is always trying to do this is under underneath everything he thinks he's Club.
And this is true he isn't it intellectual so it's clever is better educated and I certainly not street smart like that but he does have a better sense of what the problem that that he has is and the whole sentence of the inability.
Of Ben to realise that being cleverer than someone else is not necessarily an advantage.
This in this scene Beverly wants is actually going to be the reason he loses it were the same as another question why don't you tell me why I need therapy and it comes back again and that because.
The ocean ocean therapy makes me feel insecure I don't need therapy I just told you that it's my friend again three sentences duh duh duh duh duh duh duh duh duh duh. This is the rhythm of this singing every level on the across like three sentences in a speech will say within a speech,
itself the rely one side only therapy one I just told you that too it's my friend.
It's always in packets of 3 in the CNS just the rhythm of this particular scene there's no reason for it there's no rule what the writer is going to understood but I'm going to drive this scene and rhythm and patterns of 3.
And that's going to give it it's underlying cause of a unity.
I'm sorry you didn't hear me say that yeah I'm sorry you know you guys must be so good if you can't even what I said two seconds ago again he's be writing and for not listening probably 3 times.
Ok and then he goes I'm sorry I got to tell you that I can only change someday I'm not thrilled lover service of this.
This is where starving yourself then vs is my for apologizes why do we start over tell me about your friend again then again and in and then don't even have to alone.
Elicos the longer the speeches the longer I tried to talk the more they must reveal.
So as we want I won't go through what the speech is too much but as we at as he starts unfold his problem his speech gets longer because he has a problem to describe.
The more you speak the more vulnerability the more the more the more you are vulnerable to indecisive question why do you think that why do you say that these kinds of questions.
And he's aware of that and so we have to get himself in the position where you can say that.
And then what band is doing a short sentences so we've gone from the short and long and veggies I'll just show you this friends had a very powerful guy never had trouble dinner with nothing now all of a sudden is like falling apart he cries for no reason you can't sleep we come with friends,
be there again three different topic to you he he gets nervous around me what to get away from these people as normal as like it though I like your house is a taxi can't we just like he has busy just been doing it's like he's going to die or some.
The brain long rambling speech and been cut it off panic attacks has been asserting is power.
Epic sax on a doctor I know what it is and she doesn't like the most of panic because it implies that he's not in control and then jumps up and said what's all you guys fucking panic attacks one who said panic too he said panic 3 again it's another free.
Presents it's going to be.
Thing and then been back backtracks not panic dizzy chest breathing constricting attacks 3 reply is so late in the Beat Of Three that the three accusing sentences get three excusing replies from from Band wiki.
The now as we were playing the same song another both beating and 3 so we had them is beats having a back to was a now as a beginning to connect as characters a sentence with m a beginning to come together and they're beating in the same way that it is now it's relax.
Is it makes a big confession this guy wants to know what he can do to make it stop.
Again that's about centres centres replies is mistabishi I'm gonna go out on a limb here I think your friend is you know about the same length.
So we have he's got a short and long service is it now he services I can equalising out this is a point with us in it.
For the scene is going away from better cuz he's so we'll what he wants and he's telling him as problem only wants able to go to take charge and deal with it we didn't waste come in the first place.
And then he says in I think your friend is you and then the Sinker to pivots around and then there's a little bit of messing around and then we get into the part where.
So what says ok well if you want to get to router probably gonna need some some some sort of therapy.
That's the other game it's a long sentence and lick it applies what with you or something short sentence so we're going from the powerful person talking and short sentences to do with her and then longer see said I mean it's gone to equal and now it's turned around so now.
Answer me the reason why is working so well on that front is because the characters then when he feels in control his feet longer when biddies be fielding control his beats short it move it is speaking.
At long length is a slave vulnerability and weakness where is he been speaking longer is his strength so they're contra.
Interestingly probably the same reasons that this idea that the more you speak the more you reveal Ben speaks a lot because revealing' stuff and being insightful as his job videos the op it is exactly that isn't reveal too much keep this quiet.
Cards question chest strikes me.
And you have any talk about this rule rule of three but just how repetitive some of this dialogue is you you if it's on the page you you've got to give my friend you got to give oh yeah you got a fucking gift.
How many feet is very almost cliche De Niro you talkin to me you talking to me.
But I guess maybe there is a sweet pea when you're editing your own dialogue that you can sit down and cross out the repetition because you like well we've already said the line that you know.
He's got a gift why do we need wait you know a whole standard dialogue on it I think the rhythm things here is kind of.
Tools for us to understand why maybe we've got those in Tyler could be very instinctive on that first time you lay it down but you writing that rhythm and some maybe you can released I can over intellectualise and trim it back.
It is a trope in Italian American characters they do tend repetitively,
you talking to me talk about kind of thing it's answer degree part of the repetition as soon as to do the fact that it's an Italian American Gangster character and the film is a kind of us of a mocking parody of these kind of game ever in the dinner is playing iconic character call me please have a characters played,
lots of lots of times there is that but it's also absolutely true that there is an enormous amount of repetition of words and again if you look at really powerful scenes dialogue.
That there is an exchange of words and that again it is the way that you know you got a gift no I don't yes you do know I don't use you do it back as a backwards and forwards it is going on and the repetition the word is really important because the.
As the scene plays out movement the Dynamic of power between the characters is moving around,
the way that a word is use and then repeated as it it has it at 8 so has a similarity but a difference of emphasis a different account.
So that I can you get this all the time and and good screen record dialogue writing is it there the scenes turn the rotate around wanted to keyword.
Those words are in a hour in Witcher Curtis got everything is it a thing ok to talk about the thing and that thing is passed around in her as a centres is a wonderful seen by with pro Java in the remains of the day.
Where are the housekeeper played by Emma Thompson goes into Anthony Hopkins the butler Stevens as room and she's flirting with it because their relationship is just a point where there might just.
Come Together.
What should we do book it book.
What's the book about you know.
Racing
everything amazing book.
Getting crazy books to be found in his lordships shows
did it.
Delete my lungs getting it's my time.
Send that book can't you see or are you protecting me somewhere you're doing.
As the singing nun Falls book is like her.
If I can correct that is past the twin at it becomes full of sexual tension and and and symbolism and it's repeated honestly in a Scene It's somewhat 42 times in a CNA bless them to me.
42 uses of the word book.
In normal like nobody nobody talks like that no one ever watches that Phil nobody watches at home and watch is that CNN says no one talks like that.
Ok because that's not the point people don't they don't measure it by the but a normal stand as what they understand is what a scene is telling him as if you want to know how much is people desire each other.
That what you want to know the level of suppressed tension in the scene just look at how much they flirt with the word book book just becomes just going to read leaving the sound of it.
This is like a tennis match.
Bus was passing it to each other I need something pass it is a little bit was slow and belonging I need oh and the whole thing revolves around the exploration of the word book and that's kind of like a poem.
One of that you referred to earlier when you were looking for.
Something approved off in terms of dialogue one of those don't do dialogue things that I've come across the light is.
Acheter know that you're seeing is 2 has too much exposition as you got one character asking questions on character answering them all the time where is we see the scene.
It's almost an exchange of questions constantly questions and answers question answers but at no point does it feel like exposition and partly is because they're not talking.
About the plot really it's it's about in it's what they're talking about so how do you know when you're using like a good use of questions.
Because it is and he said ok if you look this in it's OK let's look at it for the effective of the two characters what is John vt1.
I don't fit he wants in the scene to have someone help him because he's having a panic attack so what you want but he wanted it and he's been recommended this.
Therapist so what John Vicky wants is this therapist to make him better.
And then what does spent over $0.01 overwatch to get him out of the office is that a said he wants to have nothing to do with them ok and no point in the sea indispensable talk about what he wants.
Ok but you just understand straight away from the moment John but he walks in they know that Ben wants a man of that ok but the sea has powerful subject because we know what's under the surface and wants to get him out and everything been is trying to do is by getting into leave.
And we know what he wants which is everything he's about is about getting himself in there and order to get rid of one so that the of the they did the goals of the characters I'm at Rocklea a PO.
And the lovely consequence of the scene is that Ben eventually gets what he wants.
Methi leaves as he leaves but he said two things are first of all I'm not going to put his my therapist.
Short term goal to get in a way that is Alice in a long term result of him being his therapist.
Which show is tied to this man in a way that he would visit living nightmare for him second thing as he leaves them but he said to me know FIFA.
If you if I talk to you and you make me into a flag I'm gonna kill you you understand so.
The line it comes back with issues with a gun because the lines about equal can we define flag because of emotions make up a while you gotta feel something and if you feel anything that you think that means you're a fag that I'm in trouble.
A permanent Bunnings simple I go bag dude I got it and I'm in a response I meant was going to point out cos it's interesting as a few of these.
There is no dialogue lines end with questions that are like you understand yeah like they turn a statement into a question.
For the other.
With John vichie this thing my questions is that John vichie it's it's always about it's it's about affirmation power I'm telling it is do you understand me.
And it's like I'm your full single account so I understand you and it's always about submission is forcing the character in a submissive position and this is what people with power do it again.
Given the tears who is this it has to be constructive questions because that's how these people are.
And if you don't have an actor understanding of how someone with power coerce is other people to obey them it's a bad constant reaffirmation of it.
Everytime I ask a question he he knows full well this person just did it's not about did you really understand me what the question is about is.
I demand now but you need to find me a superior now it's worse yes I understand and that means yes I'm you know I'm doing what you want me to do and that's all about the underlying subject of status which is really what's going on in this scene is like.
How can a very high status individual reveal vulnerability.
Because of reactive relieving buildability is across the latest movie was that your lowest it lowers your status.
So how come this hi Stacey did you get into a room and escape is what he's thinking having revealed own ability hi having low it is stated and the way you do that is your cost to post a status down of the person that you're with.
So will that I may be going lower you're going to lower still.
But the same time to trouble though that he has he has to have Max her I said hi enough status to be comfortable enough to be a psychiatrist.
Because if you're the beginning of the scene please don't kill me.
You know he's not you not being a psychiatrist cause he's in his like when he says Max it's all it says you know I do like Tony Bennett.
His reply as a pencil place I love this much everyone in the whole scene I like all Italian saying it is it for you to lie I will like.
And then it's funny because the whole thing is it's exactly what are you QS Carlo.
I can't you always submit to anything everyone with secondary character in very violent secondary character illuminates that half the same because you could've had them almost.
Walking in the sand beginning with m just walking in on the assassin with no set up but that set up actually has pale.
Set to make the sea work wasn't about to talk about the beginning you have to have the right to know two things first what's going on with the characters so what are the dramatic element.
Well in this see this character wants this thing there is this character who is this other character this character to do this this is a stated position this is a stage 3 from the other character how the stages will move to the same just have a power move all of those things are going to watch the underlying,
has a dramatic narrative that we're doing live and on top of that it is ok what is the music of John bit.
This is why I would I would say that you know when you when you think about writing dialogue is an aspect of character which is for me is that each character has their own Sam.
And that sounded expressed in the weather doll at work.
Answer your creating music so you say k John vichie plays himself if I don't talk to them soundtrack and this is what it is and it's for the threes and repetitions and questions and that's kind of the way that we design.
I designed to cynically what is the weather we arrived at the sort of music of John Betty and then make soba.
Is is is is on the other side Max so we'll talk in longer sentence.
You know what I'm more qualifying causes give it a chance when he's right he will become quite voluble bit see when he's relax doesn't talk.
Just what I misses me and that's the difference I know I'm whatever situation there and they may be required put more or less given the dynamics of the scene but the natural music is that.
You know Max will tend to use longer words with you use short words that will tend to use qualifying adjectives Vicki Wilson to use no magic.
This this is kind of honesty understanding now some people with a great deal and right as they just know that.
They don't even have Samoa.
Better think about the music it's kinda natural do that and that's why the Daleks am really so well it sounds so good but other writers.
You can just because you don't naturally hurt this is what you learn.
Again the more practice you do the way we think about this and we write whatever the better your instinct is for understanding that so when you come to create new characters in a story,
6 Mustang Eleanor you down the line you already we're thinking subconscious about the music will start to write this characters with their voices without with the other side which I think is a kind of.
I think it's character with underscore and if you look at certain very prominent as a characters you can see that you know when you know when you look in there are you talking to me that kind of character or if you look at the you know Richard Curtis Hugh Grant romantic male character.
English.
Talk about you putting out but like a little balls right till 8 at ping pong into in Notting Hill.
Can I go pee before we.
Hi
He disappeared yeah I had to provide the mortar to stop.
Have you been 55 I don't overthink much to save them and they changed it awesome I can I will marry him YouTube me.
Where is you are washed in wonder awards Glory now let's tell nonsense believe me I no idea how much I'm sensor lights but nonetheless.
Yesterday was our last day of filming so I'm leaving.
But this for you from home so I thought I'd give to you
thank you.
July now don't open it now.
Thank you I don't know what it's for but thanks anyway actually how did my apartment I got you.
But when I came to it I didn't know how to call Ivan behaved so badly
twice.
Search Justin sitting in the hotel
and you came
if you do.
The thing is
the thing is.
What is the thing
don't even think about it go away immediately go away
sorry.
You were saying.
Go away today but I
wondered if I didn't.
You might let me see you a little
or maybe.
If you could like me again
but yesterday the actor asked you who I was you just dismissed me out of it.
How to microphone on Mac.
Excuse me it's your mother on the phone.
How many tell her I'll bring it back safely tried that time but you said you said that once before it snowed in about 24 hours and the first person blackish in colouring right right yeah.
Perfect timing is over
number for a second.
I just say I thought Ghosts was the most wonderful film.
It's alright yes.
I've always wondered what oh what Patrick Swayze is like in in in real life.
I can't say that I Neil Patrick on Packer what do you want from me well I'm sure he's friendly to do me more who acted with him in girls.
Oh right sorry.
We've been a bit of an ass oh well it was underneath.
Sorry.
So is a pass on jury guys have to consider their verdict.
I'm a very level headed bloke
not often ran out of the house
butter.
Play to say no to your kind request
let me know.
Hi math course I
guys.
What's been going on then it's nice to see you.
With you I'm in real danger it seems like a perfect situation but that file Temple of your butt.
My relatively inexperienced how would I fear not recover I was.
Once again cast aside as I would absolutely expect to be there just too many pictures of you too many how are you go and I'd be.
Well bucket.
It really has real nowadays
I live in Notting Hill you live in Beverly Hills
who won the world knows who you are my mother has trouble remembering my name.
Time to see.
Same thing isn't really real you know
don't forget.
Muscle just a girl
standing in front of a boy.
Love.
We're going to 90 hell I'm just gonna make a flight aggression I'm into this I think.
You doing hh as you like smacking the Segway down.
Yeah I know let me finish which is cause I was almost going to drive into the same comment about questions as you from a different perspective.
Right which is when I was doing improv one of the things that you were taught in improv is no question.
The idea that because it's an improv thing naturally people will.
Shoot down the reality of the saying that you're crying I create by asking questions oh my god we're on the moon why are we on the moon.
And like to see me fall flat where is if you get rid of questions people have to accept the reality of the world that your building.
It's a technique that I've occasionally done when I struggled with saying is I sit there and try to rewrite it where it's like.
The opposite of a game of questions it's a game of statements and how does the scene feel if gamer statements and such.
Answer each other but there's other moments were it's in for me that's like other three interesting if this character is compelled to say something and there's no question to leave them.
But depends on the on the on the power status when I saw the opening episode of season 3 of Please Like Me last night witch.
Fantastic I really love it but there's a 3 way Skype conversation between these three friends and these taking turns to say sentences.
But it's them telling their own story or possibly ask me a question but is totally unrelated to the line that went before is basically rebuilding 3 very self involved people.
Talking in the same room but not having a conversation really and but that's because they all have equal status and they all feel very comfortable with each other and that's that.
Dynamics so you're saying something by having the lack of questions and the lack of involvement but they're all just dance would have spouting at each other where is this scene.
The questions are all about letting you get from that like that from the structural point of view of how to get a man terrified for his life to take on a mobster for therapy.
And you need questions in there.
And giving me a Segway it into Nottinghill haven't got it's initial in contrast with Anna and William because they don't ask questions as much they are kind of finishing.
Even if you just look on the page there's a lot of ellipsis is there's a lot of people that kind of picking up with the other one.
Let's go they don't need maybe it's because I'm in it's so late in the film I'm awake and have her famous saying and maybe that's why.
I mean that's interesting looking at specific with example in my hair I'll say I was trying to rewrite it the same without questions and it didn't work it's because it was the oak like one of the early scenes were introduced to our characters you need them to guardians in here.
Searching for a feeling a lot of character I guess.
And but they're on
as equal footing and say it's at the end of the film I've done there.
Yeah this is a dynamically I mean in terms of status it's it's interesting because you have this incredibly famous person.
Coming to the house sorted this the workplace of an incredibly a insignificant person but the point is that is the reverse list of this incredibly famous person has actually come to clear a love to the cuddly.
Then to the Moon entities that is a huge going to underline a reversal here and at the same time they have to.
They have to negotiate a point where she feels comfortable enough to say what she has to say.
So again it's like this this woman has come into this man and she's about to tell him that she did she loves him and she wants to be with them.
And so but it's not what point does a parrot to like her feel comfortable enough to do that it's not innocently just Comfort it's also a what point is is the issue comes up on the scene which is almost running out of time.
Well you know she can't mess around with very much longer at the what's awesome thing about this scene I think it's something that Richard Curtis is a lot is that the language.
I think about a love story is it as we all know these kind of romance is the fact is they love each other when they see eachother the whole story and it is a big problem of writing romance is,
create a series of manufactured circumstances the stop the people from being together that's really the big problem romance writer is,
you know she comes to his house beginning of a filament she goes out and she comes back massage cause she left the bag that and she suddenly jumps on it she kisses and what you obviously feel things very powerful for him and then the next time season 2 of myself to dinner and kisses in the park.
So she obviously really loves it or love it has fallen for him.
So that the promise I'll be stop them I didn't stop into going away this is what he got we like eachother should we go out and then it would we get married on yeah OK so you have to the plaza get in the way this is the interesting the characters have an inbuilt as a word.
Destiny which is that they are going to be together.
Anything part of the pot and get some way can be the characters of the carrots have to get over elements of themselves in order for them to be together.
I have a baby have to have to overcome you know a series of external if that was on then famously in the could have second half a second at those into a local schools come out but if that in a funny way because this is a run.
Because it's going to be generic a part of the structure that we all know they are destined to be together no one seriously think that any point in a story that these people are going to be together.
So the couple is already together it's just a question of how long it takes to work it out to realise.
I need these kinds of stories very often which occurred is has the language of the dialling the characters of the lovers already exchanging already been raised self-similar so that the way they talk to each other using the same kind of were the same kind of Pentacles drug.
The same kind of a Camry even though they're not together the languages together.
And it kind of in some says undercuts for the characters are doing is a character as it's like carefully trying not to be together because you're not bad to admit things all those circles I say stop in them but they language saying all the time these two people are in the same Perth.
Are you talking about at this end point of the film.
Even at the even at the beginning it is is is lesser but at the longer the story goes on the more you see this going to pack is a speech that there's a line in the scene where Anna says.
Hey he she has have you been and William says everything much the same when they changed it was bike and I'll marry me titli where is you have watched a wonder awards Glory and she replies.
Oh no it's all nonsense believe me I had no idea how much nonsense it was but nonsense it all is.
There is no American in a world that would ever use a sentence but no sense at all is OK this is it this is William this is William Tyler she talking like him.
Minivan just looking at the page the Anna part has a lot more ellipses in it has a lot more Hugh Grant pauses and stuff has and rephrasing.
Because you know the reason it Hugh Grant famously and all these films are stuck as in pauses because the character never is not admitting the truth of themselves that's the Carrie.
How many phone's were the car trimester treat themselves they get married this talking shortis and season 2 films and things become more direct and it's really interesting.
Love it if that's the synopsis of this story they speak in short sentences and they get married Mister Fitz.
The point that they the reason is bigger Longer senses because not speaking the truth and this ends when the characters actually speak the truth their language simplifier.
And as soon as I stop that stop lying to other people or to themselves whether an emotional response is the language becomes complex the language it like in these stories Richie Curtis Skepta if the language like a smoke screen.
Is what I can't he doesn't want anyone to know what they're feeling they speak a lot when they want to say what they're feeling on their honest.
The amount of words they say and the way it's constructed become much simpler.
Yet look at Anna's Kyogle justifications why she brought the painting which is Jenny my apartment in New York I just thought you would but when it came to it I didn't know how you.
Adding that so badly twice I'm in a total Hugh Grant speech but it is her kind and justifying it basically I came out with an excuse to come and see you.
By giving you a really expensive regional but it's also Amy needs a visual example of the very thing you talking about she saw him having a print of that painting so she's bought him the original.
To build a connection between them William responds to Anna with what's the thing and it's ties into what you're saying about the thing.
Other thing thing thing is from get your thing and it's late and this is again this is Anna if you look at the construction of the next thing says the thing is pause.
Change of emphasis I have to go way too but it wondered if I didn't whether you might let me see you a bit or a lot maybe see if you could like me again.
This is this kind of you should not what she should say or what you know what we know exactly what you understand I love you I want to be with you that's all she needs.
But because she's not yet at the point in a seamless you have the courage to say precisely what she want.
You, suggesting and then William again it's just that they reply but yesterday that actress who I was,
are you dismissed out of hand I heard you had a microphone I had headphones,
this is gonna call me under and kind of conversation then and it comes in with this line you expect me to tell the truth about my life to the most indiscreet man and England by that's the truth is an actress who knows that you can't say things I'm going to leave because,
your life can be made a mess of.
Imported no complexity it's like a simple site is extremely direct cause she's talking to true then we have a it's interesting in this in another interruption.
In the same way in the previous seem you looked at you have a like a prelude which is the beginning of the guide been treated by.
Call before you want Vicky comes in in this scene we have a message really I think again.
Interesting because you if you ask the question why is this in reckon is such a way where you have it's a very chatty saying there's a lot of Dialogue in it I'm and quite a lot of it scene is taken up with this.
Defeat assistant who is kind of slutty awkward and a ghost.
Making fun of lots of mistakes and partly it's because this thing is so sweet.
30. Sit flat and no it's almost impossible to write because waiting for you not one lover coming to another level if you don't Shakespeare you know just to get through this thing without me what it's going past with a sick bag.
It's really really hard because it's all gone.
You know so so so so part me it's like where's the lemon when how do I put a twist in the scene and I wanted to give it a bit of a different.
Undertaken to dilute the sugar and so he does it with this kind of like the tonic water if you like and the scene is it character he just has a number stupid things and there's another interrupting character it was the customer comes early he throws out.
And that I was going to ring and ups it's really interesting because Anna is rambling and William when the Mr Smith comes in Williamsburg strapped into the truth just don't even think about it go away immediately.
For the interruption happens right as William says what's the thing like you did her too.
I want to hear the answer it showed that he wants her to stay and he's been busy can only give the truth to that customer which is in a piss off I hear what she has to say and so over here it's Cuz it's one of those little moments meant to eat a great laugh.
But it reveals character and reveals that he has his under the underlying desire to hear what Anna has to say.
Even his breath saying we're breaking up well wake me up I don't want to see yours going to say.
But this is also have.
And put something it's something that you said to me a long time ago Steven but it stayed with me is that when you actually have a character say their true if I say something without some text they actually relinquish power to.
Often take you over there talking to him we saw it in there a billion backs at Ben's Sobel seen just before bow and sober when he says please don't kill me.
Quick giving up power to committee by saying that and then when MIDI admits that he wants.
Therapy he's giving power back to Max and it's the same thing here that is soon is a Anna actually gets to the truth of what you saying and seen that that's when William has all the power and they seem to say.
And say what you're doing if you write this in first they actually states the big scene so you know you don't want to waste.
Awesome sweetie hard to ride is so not a not make it to Sweet because it's really just a love decoration.
Young this little guy who interruption that allows on everything to the rhythm of it because we have William and then come in and it's little bit you know Dum Dee Dum Dee Dum is hazardous sentence and he replies in the same way,
and then we have this little man Martin.
The comes out again when he's talking about he said he said your mum's on the phone and and William Hugh Grant leaves and then we have this little exchange money which is,
can I just say it go to the wonderful film is that right as I know yes I've always wondered what Patrick Swayze is like in real life.
I can't send a package all that well how dare he wasn't ready to fill me suddenly we got sentence we got questions.
Mercator Evanna story and it's either hasn't got short work shorts and has his question response questions 1 and suddenly the rhythm and seen pics up so we had this kind of two people can have like meandering because they not able to direct approach the tree.
And then we have more to be an idiot.
But he wants to know something straight forward it and answer the sensibly goes dump dump dump dump truck through to the pace of 18 picks up with dialogue is driving the scene forward.
And then we get out of that then as it is a funny gag line because he has made it mistakenly no it's not it's not too it's not under his talk about away and then.
My tea leaves and William comes back and it's like we restart a scene and it's really getting that it.
This this decision to the writer is made to throw in this series a funny line.
Which are short and abbreviated so we can it's a picked up the going to commit Rhythm of the Sea take us away from the sweetness of the ramon.
I brought it back as to where he is a romantic comedy and this scene is divide into romance and comedy and so we know we have the romance that we go to the comedy to go back to the Romance.
I'm under snow comedy in 1 hour and we were talking about there's no, it is no laughing and what they're saying but you know there's the humour in the middle Unley humour is abbreviated and fast so we drive as seen through and then we get it on again when he comes out.
Anna is asleep so sorry about that and I know it says again quite straightforward when she's waiting she was nobody's going to say to it when she said you know I want to be with you that's fine is always a pause one of your ready comes goes out I said rates per day.
And then Williams reply and again it's look at what he's not telling the truth to himself and that's the point look at his dialogue Anna look.
I'm a very level headed bloke not often and out of love but can I just say no to your kind request and leave it at that.
When you missed out what he says and what it says in the big print or educators as the read it I can't really Express water kefir.
I just like the reason he can't express what he feels is because he's lying what he feels.
Is it here now so this is the whole point they didn't have the point of this scene is that as we know he's destined to be with her ok lists of love is working on him but he's not admitting it.
Because of his own preoccupation his own past and his inability to have a successful least it women at cypress it there a good strong character reasons for resuscitation.
But his dialogue is casting around for a Canon routes drifting can I just say no to a kind request and leave it at that.
Drifting meandering kind of sentence.
Kingaroy wrong and only says yes that's fine that under toes of course I you know of course I'll just that I choose staggered because he turned it down so this is just a good day is this.
And this is what the truth is OK it's not about truth is about to give her a list of.
Excuses.
That he's making for not being able to cope with a fact that she makes him feel very strongly about things that have been so cut off from the world for so long the fact that she makes it for him she makes him feel emotionally alive and then the dollar.
Expressing that the truth is with you I'm in real danger it looks like a favour situation apart from that file Temple you wasn't but and this is the key phrase listen to this.
But my relatively and experienced hard would I say not recover if I was once again cast aside which I would absolutely expect to be.
OK how often it it ever seen a line like that and it's 4 in it hurt and a screenplay ok it's like done and then it's beautiful because.
It's a bogus you know it's just nonsense and it's just the way that the sentences constructed the order just goes this is bullshit isn't it.
I know this is not as he's just this whatever he's saying he's lying it's just not true.
I'm a relatively inexperienced how he's talking about love we talk about it as strong powerful emotions that the finalize,
my anybody says my router in sweet how would I fear not recover if I was once again cast aside he's talking like.
And I like an 18th century is like Buddy Sheridan you know it's not easy not talking like a modern person is is avoiding everything and the dialogue is at as a complete smokescreen.
You'll be going I'd be buggered basically I see and then she said they said then he goes into a series of again quit rhythm I live in Notting Hill you'll in Beverly Hills ever in the world knows who you are my mother has trouble remembering my name because he's talking couplet.
It did.
Even buggered basically I mean that the alliteration and the repetition and that's and it's a great way got all that rambly thing and then the short sounds of the buggered basically can't top capital tops it whatever you want it is.
I just said ok fine fine good decision she said,
good decision is one of these are repeated phrases that you get it again off and then it's been writing dialogue good to see the line good decision on the phrase but it said occurs about 4 times and Notting Hill a different Point.
Yo the last time understood good decision was when she was in her hotel room and she taken William back to her room to have sex with him and her boyfriend expect we turned it from America and he said hey I've done it from Meraki unexpectedly is that a good decision or not only went yes good decision.
The last time she said those words good decision so Nicki Minaj story wonder if a good decision comes out again the right Russell one of them in my dialogue what are the lines the words are going to use it chemotherapy.
Did you want to go OK that's a man in his notice over the last time she said good decision would be good pivotal moments in the emotional evolution of an escort in the film,
become like either milestones in there in a moment of the story.
And it's Echo by William sprint Bella not long after like actually next play The Script when she's like good decision or actress is a mad at snakes.
And I think he.
And then William and that subsequent same with it I've made the wrong decision I haven't I mean this is all pretty obvious to the audience is no.
It's 4 but that's it because it so caught up in the characters in the story but when you go back again you didn't say it was sending it finishes very famously with.
The absolute Simplicity of what Anna says the same thing isn't really real you know don't forget I'm also just a girl standing in front of a boy asked him to love her.
If asleep,
it's in threes I'm also just a girl standing in front of a boy asking for love her the dead letter to the editor the delayed at the moment,
ok it's poetry ok you know any sense that you don't from moment think that the writer hasn't aware of the stresses of the syllables that you when you when you when you say that.
Ok sweets is in threes and it's the same as a syllable stress of the site I'm also just a girl standing in front of a boy asking to love me.
Frozen part of the rent people got a wireless great that line that is a killer line in the cinema when it first comes out it will go whenever the power of it.
It's not just that she's speaking Street full to the truth.
That's exactly what she is and so at this absolutely pivotal moment in her life the character make the simplest description possible about cheers but it's also rhythmically Eleanor.
Elegance to the construction of a dialogue the match is that going to sincerity and truthfulness of what she's saying and that together and I see the point.
Ate his constructed to seen in a beautiful way to make the can a resident final only going to kill a line work in the way that it needs to.
But he's also that's the underlying stuff we talking about you've got out the structure and you're going to know what you're doing in the scene but when you can get to the line you got to have a beauty and the Waves written.
That's not to do with the underlying stuff that's ok what words do I choose what rhythm do they have now simple or complex Ave how does a punctuation with all those different come together and then you have this going to line which you know it's cliche now so what's a warning you,
you know.
I have played romantic comedies so same as for the week I was wanting belarussia were somewhere lighters in a room full of Harry as bikers and I played in the first half hour of.
Other sleeps in Seattle there's a great liner supersa South were his kid phone's up the radio station because his dad is lonely because his wife has died.
And he took the Radio DJ at the Christmas Eve and she says tell me about your wife and again it's fantastic cuz it's so simple.
Alex it's the only says she made everything beautiful for she made everything beautiful and it just actually slows you when you do.
Because it's exactly want to carry it feels and thinks there's no complexity it is a nice she made everything beautiful it's a nice flight to The Lion and the truthfulness kills I like stop very bikers.
It is pissing down there cheats and I was swimming subtitles from half a little bit this week anyway so it is when you get this going to simple stuff right.
Cuts to the kind of part of the audience and also the character.
But trying to trying to find some I guess tools for people to analyse and improve their own writing.
I guess one of the things to be to look for weight in a scene of any.
Reasonable length like more than half a page do you have differences in resin like do you have two characters speaking in different rhythms or do you have like we've got in this example where they be introduced interruptions just to change up the Rhythm.
Of the same because he had two characters talking at the same way and with analyse this day you had in a day.
Invert.
Depending depending who was talking to who in those different movements of the same there were different rhythms to it whether it was question and answer or question and answer or.
Depends who can wear 2 characters are in the story and what their relationship that's the point that I like is a matches off or plays a Fatso in that his name plug a before from remains of the day just dinner the book.
It's that's that's very flirty because there are kind of the point in a relationship where they are either going to kiss each other really don't know when I'm going to see if they done.
And that is the closest thing to ever come to be together and so that point is the weather status is he's a housekeeper housekeeper he's a backflip.
He's such a high status no this is a very stratified welder stories in it in the world of being over the downstairs of an English country house so that status does make a difference but she walks into his room.
You know he allowed here and he doesn't make Canada so what you doing here and whatever she brings flowers seeing stars.
Send flowers in his room so she's as it we're bringing the feminine into this very male world and it started the whole thing is about OK in this could be the synthesis of male or female this is weird this is a pivotal moment they're absolutely.
So then there isn't an opposition there is it's a short scene because we don't don't want to introduce other elements.
Answer this time under the essential they just exchanging it's the same rough length of sentences the same the Camry kind of like two sides of the same coin.
And then at the end of the film.
The end of the scene rather keep he will Jackson and you have this really simple language all the way through the scene and then he says that I'm just something like I read his books in order to broaden and widen my education is suddenly his language is formal.
Done done completely different and that sings the break he's decided to make he was not going to become is not going to be her partner and the language Express is that that formality makes her Retreat and full internet and it's also an affirmation status.
You know I am a educated man who reads books in order to educate myself I'm not pray to city emotions like women have that's going to what he does it take to pull up but in that scene then it's not a competitive knowledge is working in a competitive edge complimentary.
This confirmation because they are kind of together only until then and see what they can a fracture and if you have characters who are.
Very close to each other the dollar does not compacted or is not exchanging so much a little the you know that line and Blues Brothers were the tiny line in Brisbane I really like work.
They look away J Cole it looks the back of the car and the cops are behind them and there's this the two of them in each week once as one word that's it series scene with a dollar has only one wedding.
Having a shit while role as well as yeah shit that's the thing I don't have to undergo shit you know and but the neither of us has more than one work because they're completely on the same level.
They both as well Jake and Elwood I completely together they are essentially literally inoue Brothers and there there's no so you couldn't put up a cigarette paper between them so there's no dollar is almost identical.
I'm going to add an express as that can closeness and a relationship without.
Show me now I try and apply what we've learnt to.
Avengers.
Ticking time bomb Heaven.
The first Avengers.
Wheat wheat wheat chosen for a number is it's Cuz that's what's a crowd scene so there's multiple competing interests not just two people talking to each other.
Highton very similar status characters.
And it's at a point in the film where it's having to do some heavy lifting for flight isn't the right word but the characters all have to be at a different place at the end of the scene and they were at the beginning with only dialogue.
Happening so the dollar was having to move the characterisation in the relationships between his characters of long-term this movement is resting in the Dialogue in the interrelation between the characters not on.
Pot intervening so Stephen 8:40 reaction.
Special controls Court chaos is a mower isn't it.
No win no no no chemical mixture that makes chaos.
What time bomb do you need to step away for them steam you know damn well right back I'm starting to make me.
Big man suit on take that off what are you junior playboy philanthropist.
Accident footage the only thing you really fight for yourself.
Game x sacrifice play to lay down on a wire and the other guy cries over you I think I would just cut.
I was way out.
You know what you mean up to your friend with you but it's stuck pretending to be a hero hero like you you're a laboratory experiment Rogers everything special about you him I love vinyl but I'm a simple Gmail.
People are so petty and tiny strong enough escort Dr back to I was just in case you need it to kill me but you can I know I tried.
I can't long and it's in it so I put a bullet in my mouth and the other guy spit it out.
Well done I talked to start helping other people I was good until you drag me back to this Freakshow the put everyone here and rescue I know my secret every moment if you want to know how I stay calm.
Ok today tessera I can get there as long as you were.
When we met I live it's just a good piece of big print it sets up the same for the owner dialogue is back in the ladders of these people keep rubbing off each other and at any moment the shit will hit the fan.
That's all I do to set up and then going to the dialogue and it is interesting how are you can use that kinda I guess big print to interpret dialogue and just go into it go there's some actual lines but.
You know there's more Parade patpat parentheticals in this in terms of the actions to keep the emphasis on the dialogue Tony puts his arm around Steve Steve pushes Tony off Tony comes face to face with Kat you know it's just a little bits of action just trying to keep.
I guess the iPhone focused on there on the dialogue and reading through that sends a man that says pure.
Blocking staging.
Formatting blocking staging but it's also just so you know it's not gonna make it craft any better but.
Let's sit there like what's going on underneath this scene so we can see what if anything is successfully being done in the dialogue so.
They've been is the Avengers have assembled as it we're but they're not they're all still individuals in the room and Nick Fury wants them to all come together.
Yeah and banner is pointing that out expressly in dialogue and then there is a Steve Rogers pointing out at it's almost like creating a character arc in dialogue which is why it I think.
It does pay a little corny and wrong but in saying you're not the one to make the sacrifice play where is the at the film ends with Tony Stark in.
Making sacrificing himself.
For the good of the world so it's doing that's what I mean about heavy lifting in terms of it is providing it's position but as providing character exposition not plot exposition.
Which I think that's open it a challenge for me and my writing is there are these.
You know you were supposed to put these characters through these arts and sometimes you want to reinforce what you've dramatised with like people saying in dialogue what is that characters problem what are they going to have to overcome just like spelling it out for the audience as.
Has happened here.
So did a success we are now looking well I guess were looking at between does it really well here is characterisation making just in dialogue like you said.
So if you took all the characters names away from this you would have a very strong feeling for who's talk.
I wonder if that's because we hear you know there now so closely identify you know Thor is so closely then It's Over Chris Hemsworth.
And start with with.
Robert Downey Jr bit I'm trying to make a few observations here yet 40 minutes of status thing in terms of minutes, maybe that's why point cook stuffed interesting to look at because it is somewhat caricature.
Thor is pompous so he's language and you always think he's better than everyone so you know you speak of chaos it you caught 80 you speak of control yet you courthouse.
There's a reason I got Ken branagh to Direct the First full movie they wanted to pull off so Shakespeare like pronouncements.
You know and I put photos up other than when you need to say the plot line of Lupita doTERRA kept her outside and that's it in switching into purely feeding the pot the pot that there no new people so petty.
And tiny and the reason and tiny itsfunneh is Cuz so petty is this high status.
Word to do with his pompous language and then button it with that and timing is kinda little bit of a drop of status.
Beyonce just the thing as Steve Rogers is that he is from like 19:50 so he's going to speak more about ura and you know that the contrast with him with.
Does he doesn't like call anyone daddy-o or anything like that where Steve Rogers I feel like it's not in his language per say that.
That it says I'm from the fifties but it's in his.
You know that that there is in his challenges there is good and there is evil there are Americans in the end there are Nazis you know that there's no Grey.
It's almost like really to the characters in The seeing you soak I mean because it's an action movie and because there is so just say things are so compressed because you have so little time do you so much of a story is really about you know when you watch the clip when you look at this.
You know seen what speed do the underlying stuff take the scene is it there is that exploding device that's been fired and you don't win the bottle is a bomb going off so what you reap what you're really interested in is exactly what is a bomb explode we should get a great.
Classic cinematic.
If you want it if you want to do exposition have a bomb just sitting there.
Is it the time bomb of The Avengers at the time.
Apple x.
But you can't that's fine what what the characters are as also they kind of tight so you will you got to characterize a very quickly and you know you can also do this in an awesome person and Steve is kind of a.
Integrity integrity and then he looks like he's missed insulin.
Everything is going to ride the slay me and wheedling and it is very everything you said you were something in the face you know that but that's that's what it is and then banner is is kind of confused.
You don't moralist.
And he's got very similar reading on the Patriots and the bird William in wow very similar very similarities between Williams winning in 1990 Hill and how banners word in here a lot of Sutton convoluted.
Repeated words so is like no no no it's impressive to see.
But I mean it's not gonna be bossy different from the page to the to the film but you can read their performance on the page which I think is what we trying to get to with.
With this episode of drugs zero but he he certainly is one of the characters I talked to the longest here and just in.
And he's almost like a Greek chorus kind of characters of commentating on their action.
Within within his with his speech you two degrees himself,
it's like I mean what I'll be 18 no no no we're coming to make snake scales work wear a Time by Meghan It's like these three again is speaking in threes,
honey and within that he's disagreeing with himself and contradicts himself will receive know what is that Springs own question is kind of and close it is only world it is all really in,
he doesn't associate or relate to other characters in the story as much cheese in it and by the fact that he almost done a black explosion turns into.
Turn to the whole half way through this in because everything is internalise with a wheeze not actually even though he's talking he's not really expressing for them not really in a conversation.
The conversation is kind of with himself.
You know I'm only tells you he's only one in the scene to tell stories about you no idea I got no evidence Hienz will put a bullet my father people spread out so I moved on by telling his life story in the middle of a scene where it at all work and I want to go to do when you know what the action they should,
so he's kind of.
Is not in those were the world of action that's interesting so all the other characters in the world of action have shorts under says because that's what you do in the world of action.
This character is kind of withdrawn from it has the longest beach in longer sentences in his he's not really addressing his his darling it's not about what's happening right now.
He quite quickly goes away from the abstract if you like very very very very readily from all this so he and improvise dialogue terms Italy nice counterpointed.
In a position in relation to the characters who took a very directly to each other about.
This thing about banner because he's a title in his a scientist of the language that he chooses or women's shoes to use.
Banner heat uses a metaphor that is scientific know where I can make sure I'm bomb you know I'm in Epping even that is just a very.
Good example of that well Steve like I know you know I know guys worth more than ten of you know That Soulja thing you know the sacrifice by you know till a going away I'll let the other guy for all over you like a soldier speak you know we can identify.
Who these are and I think what's interesting about Tony is she's asking what a question Tony is answering in state.
Berries that he a hero I like you is Andrew still everything special about you came out of a bottle.
Better when I would like to point out that is 23 previous lines have been equips but there's no better way of putting it they've been equipped.
Finally that he says more than one sentence in a row is in response to Steve saying you better stop pretending to be the hero.
In the parenthetical under Tony it says that did it so something has prompted him like he's made a decision we just made a decision for him to actually speak.
Longer and not just deliver a quick but actually try and hurt because that's the other thing is that the things that he's been saying before a bin.
To try and I guess get last there haven't been a tax per say where is this isn't attack on Steve and you know I need again at hero? Like you? You're a lab rat Rogers.
Dialogue lincet pretending to be hero Stevens twenties Lane starts with a hero.
So I'm at Sonic hopefully we'll get into an hour I'll follow up episode but that's a specific example or two lines of dialogue completely.
Talking to each other.
Looking into each other cuz Tony didn't have to say that but you better stop pretending to be a hero and turning could just go on your lab rat or as a laboratory experiments and then in the clear but they deliver we hook them together probably to show.
That was the thing that got to Tony Stark if they lied about the Hero by him repeating it's actually referring to the audience that was the thing that knocked him.
Knocked him off and it did you kill like High School English study in poetry but going back to the dentist Beach which which I really which I found really affecting you know that I did CNN so I put a bullet in my mouth in the other guys spit it out.
What's interesting.
Is that the it's the use of the so bullet mouth they're all kinds of long I sound and then other guy same thing and then spit it out.
The continents kinda gives it this real punctuation that ivacy Mark Ruffalo is able to play up in his performance but it's there on the page and you can even read it.
It's interesting that for me these it is even this scene.
Ok see you soon a lot of heavy lifting for character because it's basically laying the groundwork for the emotional journey of a character journey of Bruce Banner saying.
What makes him angry what you know how does he keep in control wait what is his relationship with the hold it's got Tony's is laying down Tony's.
Desire to be a hero.
Designer be a hero and also his challenge to be a hero because it's been said again it's like his floor is being put in the mouth of another character and Steve the whole thing the lead into this scene that we.
Tally them getting equipment will be able to Steves in a black and white Mr Integrity but he's just found that the team is playing on is using.
Essentially has atomic weapons on board or chemical weapons and has a bad thing that he disagrees with his having a question his own.
Nothing back complex at complex position Steve is an all the addictive contract between as it was a simple will the simple rules the world Stevens in a complex world is actually it.
Is is in the is when I sit down the line between Stephen Tony where is the big man in a suit of armour take that off what are you simple words simple statement and then the reply that Tony gives a genius billionaire Playboy lamp.
These are in a in some ways a Playboy genius a philanthropist that the kind of these words are not that exactly contradictory they're not.
Each other but not complimentary there's a Chinese reply is faithful the long word.
A genius. Playboy philanthropist is the longest word in the same so so so feel a lot better I'm so kind of.
To Steve's for the simple statement of morality is kind of a person is saying the world is more complicated than your analysis.
You know and my words are also more complicated than yours and it said it is that contract Peter simple words of 1940.
Morality Elizabeth complex words of a 21st century morality where things are really complicated in a difficult to know 22222 digico,
deconstruct I could come up I just say with a clevaquip at that point we could have the right of it I put in a clever little phrase we choose and again it's the rhythm of ingenious Ballina play Boy for Love.
Duh duh duh duh duh.
And the choice of the order of that word of those work for words would have been very carefully.
As if you did it exactly did a Playboy.
That's it that's a direct challenge if I say I'm listen I'm better than you so he's not in the end with genius.
Is a kind of declarative you know this I'm great and you're not kind of her kind of sentences so they can which words coming really important.
Is the last word in this in this list of things he is the last wish is a good thing so you put to the world the last thing which is the most.
Murray approvable saying that he.
And the longest word.
And the longest word at the end of the sentence I know you like it is like a silly things predicted to go to this detail,
at this dinner but actually you can imagine you know the number of times when you actually shooting something and talk to the action rehearsing we just says about which words come in what order are absolutely crucial be made it tells you.
You know the thing that Tony wants to leave Steve where it is I'm a philanthropist that's the last thing he wanted to take away and that tells you something about the car.
But whoever he has a has a moral ass back.
Chas in with the notion of you know Daddy to be a hero and it's like which way get some because you know him so he does see himself as having a moral you know of course it is a fight if a joke isn't true he is not a fake.
You know and body sensitive to visitation because you're so rich and because he's a billionaire because a playable address as well you're a fake.
How many says you're in a when that accusation is pretending to be a hero he's getting straight to the half of what Tony is stock is really casino size weight or is it will press this button.
Because he is in a he is a genuine hero who dresses up as genuine moral belief and it kind of postmodern cynicism.
Way likes to know show himself off as being actually I'm just too I'm just a tosser do you know who goes right to see a bit of fact that hides aggression of a real Simplicity and a moral virtue that is kind of Summer to stay.
Not less or Morrison Steve is but he doesn't he just guys as it more me know he wears a suit.
I don't think that relationship is like all the sequels are coming out of it you know I'm in the hole.
Avengers civil war is it Steve vs Tony and you can see it right there that can't I do the back 24th 1940 morality vs 21st century morality.
And that's what the Winter Soldier it's like Steve's journey in this situation in the scene is played out over the whole of the Winter Soldier just so catch America.
I think I just what I wanted to wonder is what I wanted to look at this is to just show people that it did it we are not limited to.
Talk about these things in in two people contacts in contacts films like remains of the day on stuff like that it's.
The all of these the reason why these lines work why they sing while they're why the dialogue in two players so great is because it is coming from the characters perspective and it is characterising them.
Xxx position of character is feeling character and then I meant this is kind of a good scenes home and went because it was quite but you can see how you can then borrow that down William is a guy that indecisive so he's language is in.
Decisive.
You know and a vid is a guy that is used to having power and needs to reaffirm his power saw uses question like it do you understand me as a way to reaffirming his power but that also tyres review.
A panic attack in really think about a cousin that even is repetition of panic that's what a Paddington you're actually sounds panicked.
By saying panic like it's it's actually demonstrating.
You know the dialogue or dialogue is reviewing character and actually is dramatizing it too and there is that a perception but there is always that.
Training of the Damned If I do the dialogue copy action you know that very very going to write a screenplay then you have the dialogue.
Paraphrase Hitchcock but I think what we showing here is that the dialogue by adding a dialogue you're actually reviewing what's going on underneath and maybe you know.
And they do the analyse that scene it's all action in dialogue it's it's the passing of a baton back and forth about who's in control.
Pencils and of the scene and of the interaction and what I like about this particular scene I is I would have been really interested to see how the scene played out if they hadn't had.
The b b beat of the computer and the time bomb go off like it would have been it quite fascinating to see how this plays out.
Anyway what's interesting when you look at this you know so you get the impression that it's kind of because when you write in this cause of action film it's so difficult,
I'm into the craft in this scene is really remarkable it's not the least things are in each kind of seems there is evident as if you if you read if you were looking at them remains the day or Richard Curtis work,
you have more time because this kind of the stories are about interaction to him people,
20 about the relationship that is easy as a character page story when you would actually story like this,
you look at this new thing ok how would you write this how would you really set out to write this have to work it out for you.
I need sex with it what you want this reads like when you look at it and it's finished form is it going to boil down and service in the first half an hour a day Geelong.
Were you looking to go to who are these characters what are they feeling a bit thinking about where are they and you've right you know exchanges a look in her daughter just identify cause of the essence of what it is in a social thing,
that we have to show about banner in the same nothing else and then as you rewrite and rewrite and rewrite you boil and buy them all and what you go to the end is it gonna juice you know when you make,
do the French have it worth Repco oil in a bath you know or half a swimming pool,
that's the absolute quintessence of the flavour that you want and it is with this kind of right thing is about that know whether the rated does this in their head.
I literally just think something some things and comes out and compressed worth it with Practice you probably can do that but I think you know it's it's a really good he's at work you know how it happened you get this level of intensity of.
Of the scene be only about what has to be about a nothing else.
And the dialogue being so laconic and so spa and yet doing the job I think it's about we write in a we writing in every rewrite comes a little bit shorter,
little bit shorter until I get so short it doesn't make sense and expand it a little bit back out there to get the right without the right level boiled away isn't it.
I love that point in screenwriting where I've gone to a driveway people start saying you need more not less cuz you just packed it back to that.
Yeah I guess you have been in my head you know that idea if I you know you got it cuttings cuddle fat just get it down to the the the me anyway but in me fat is where the flavour it it's being careful so it's not too bad.
Rotarians adjust great what what are the people doing that it's disgusting Eric Alba.
I mean I was going to say mushrooms and that's awesome way to eat mushrooms bring something absorb the Suzanne,
that's why I of all people talk about cooking I'm sorry I'm not that we've talked about in touch,
the follow-up is that idea that shared language is a way of showing groups in AU.
Technical vocabulary is a way of becoming part of your group inciting incident 3rd at protagonist I'm part of the group it's right it's right.
You actually know what any of that shit man and a lot of people don't.
Have you guys seen the Martian ok one of the things that I really liked about it is yes they do.
Reduced really complex scientific been to Hollywood Babble but not too late the usual kindergarten level they left there at Lakeside no High School physics.
You have there.
They didn't care if everyone understood it or not because that's because that was what has to be true to the characters and then like a help the Matt Damon would have like a very self-deprecating usually have at the end of each line.
So basically this means I have to live off this much me for the days just said I hope you know that this huge allina me just sums it up in a joke.
But yeah I think what you're talking about shared language and I think we've seen it here you know.
Notting Hill now.
Notting Hill we saw them talking like each other um so I'm really looking forward to our follow up episode.
If innocent people are found another time ok I'm ok I'm invited it doesn't feel that I message her good character.
Voice writing a waving to my characters what is some things that we can do to this is Mr we looking at a really amazing scenes written by really Top Ryde at work.
Doing really great stuff right in the final form but most the time after picking up with black shift for a long time right what are some stuff that we can do so at least that gap between what we want to achieve.
And we are achieving can kind of clothes.
Almost I was amazing I'm looking to send that that we talked to the beginning amount of mining in to size does the underlying dramatic structure of the sea in a nurse the way the techniques of dialogue.
First of all this is never going to fly unless you've got the underlying stuff right so you have to know what they actually the scene is where it's going who's driving the actual to see what Decisions are made you're in the Senate put the actual forward so where are the as a moment the beat in the scene where the action is move,
what the question if you like the drive the plots of the seed.
What is the main character seen the protagonist and sing trying to achieve what's an object of the scene where is objective shit by the further towards getting it or further away from it so you understand and alone architect.
Yep no other then you have to say to yourself that is seen that has too much as a text with as opposed to subject.
I'm is a Scene It's always will be very flat and devil too mate work mostly character spend most the times in scenes not talking about the truth.
Septum take ok sleep baby The Avengers here where we come into a crisis and the shift to sit in the phone as well as a cab there speaking true to each other brother think about each other most of the time.
Only banner really gets to the point minutes speaking about the truth about what they think about each other but.
Not themselves.
Where's the subject.
What's a subject in your seen an unlikely so so as in what's the Dynamic movement to the action to see what's a subject the same when does the text as when does subjects come above the surface,
when did when did the scene do the characters say absolutely the truth with no elaboration and that's exactly what they think.
Answer should be at specific moments that you have designed that I wear and therefore peak moments in the scene so you answered that that.
That's my understanding of underlying stuff now think about your characters what are the individual voices your characters have what are the social context what's that background why would they talk the way they talk where were the educated what are the attitudes,
you know to the people that talking to where is the end of the year did who had the control the power and see it may not be the same as a person who controls the axe.
How does he always understand who the most powerful person is when does the power ship.
I'm what happens when that power shifting how does a dialogue why do people being truthful lying lying to themselves not being honest to themselves the language you become all night till because got a smoke Square.
When they're being truthful it has to be simplified when people have a potential to each other language will be simpler.
What kind words these people use and how do you pattern and rhythmically organise the carrot.
So they have a kind of music to them so think about you know if it's a if there are gem call Con overeducated or a meandering kind of character how will the language express that,
and where does where would they go where would you go against that pattern of David what makes people jerk out of a normal pap as a speaker.
What might happen in the sea in that would do that so you have it you have to get a sense of the overall nature of the person at a sensor therefore the way that they would talk then within that look at the way you will see in runs.
You're very sweet to say whatever it all looks of it saying it and it says the people attending to talk about the same amount did sensor telling me about the same Lan.
How does the length of the sentence is reflective as with a pace and limit of the story within the same as though you just have a very in a sentence.
Even with the contractor however long or short these people senses are it is a perfect s talking shorts and this is make the census shorter at some point and longer than some,
satac a very that and less than speaking in Rosebery long service again how does it move around do you have a can of a pattern Rhythm of the way the characters speaking will probably talk more about this later and the second one but actually had them bounce off each other.
What kind of F1 character is a kind of music to their voice what happens when the other instrument comes in what effect does that have and having a phone if you're up two or three card.
How does patterns and rhythms bounce off each other I say to write to think of your characters in your story as different instruments in an orchestra.
So what instrument think of each of your characters and what instrument characterizes that the undersea the flute and violin in our trumpet what are they.
And I need and when do they play in and then think of the unit that which makes you start thinking of their voices as sounds rather than.
Collections of words which means something cause I think you got always having them having your head this notion that there's also there's what people say and there's a sound they make when they're saying it.
And the audience is interested in the sound they make is a saying it as they are and what they say.
So what you're right and I like for his not just to have them say things but you also having a make a sound and that that sound is really crucial to do it is enjoyment of the carrot.
There's a visual.
Corollary analogy to that where apparently cause I'm doing a holiday reception Tower brain thing from my current script apparently whenever we look at something were only actually.
Seeing interpreting new information or about 4%.
And 96% is constructed from what we previously seen what were assuming it's unsafe and from cinematic purposes that the reason why you always want us focuses because.
Most detailed that we store about any person is around the around the eyes though.
That's good good stuff even thank you so much until.
Till next time.
If you dug this podcast please subscribe and rate us on iTunes if you want to argue with Stu on myself you can find many ways of contacting us at www.nz row.
And now.
Very this maybe this perception like when I was like I want to get when I was like thinking and I was wicked Island I started reading what a plays cause I was like what is a play.
Just dialogue does screen storytelling dialogue have it's Origins in theatre or is it actually something else.
I would I you strongly that it's not.
The movies with silent before they were talking so you know that it's really important one to stand there so I think I'm thinking about dialogue is there when the movie started narrative Cinema started it was silent there wasn't it.
And people to people were telling stories without the necessity of dialogue because technically was impossible to have it and then when they look kind of started coming into screen stories.
Cinema stories he came in and get a surprising ways always that without think about it came in through intertitles.
So didn't hear character speak for quite a long time and then when characters disc we go again technically they were quite a lot of adjustments that I made around and the 2013 in order to allow.
Found to be recorded properly and they also serve like a lot intermediate stages were you couldn't move the camera and very much because the sound of it,
the film go to the shutter was too loud and see how to make a soundproof box and put the camera the box so what then happened was you film theatrical show.
The Marx Brothers example work in the Hay Day at them early days of Sound because they took the much for the stage shows of film them.
So the first introduction of Sound was a break and very very if you like the Mark's me that's going to virtuoso Dialogue.
Got a fast asset got a Broadway speak and he's going to which seasons.
An an an clever weird because when you're standing still on the stage and you're taking orders if you're not doing anything you ask your conversation has been very entertaining very busy and that's why the most was going to say I'm so so so busy but then when you can move a camera around.
Then you're not it's not necessary to have a character who is it about holding the story with the way they speak and if that is some ways it becomes a problem if you have a character that sold in the story where this week because a cinematic invited to move the come around to cut.
United to tell the story of it in a complex visual way using sound as a and a company that take me to not as the primary 2.
Raising the theatre you could argue that dialogue is almost the primary method of communication.
You know that the characters speaking is really more than 50% of what it is.
I'm in it again it's massive generalisation but broadly speaking YouTube oh that so so it's things change.
So Beau willimon The Creator and showrunner of House of Cards he deliberately hires.
Appraise writers room along with screenwriters playwrights then screenwriters because of their ability to maintain an audience of interest over a great length ever seen when it is not just dialogue it.
The interplay between two people or more people but really it's about the communication between the characters it that you're watching.
As expressed through dialogue.
Yes and how to maintain interest through that and little else.
It also means because when we talk about Dialogue in a little while I can an example to my darling and television as per darling and cinnamon.
Your Daleks starting Cinema wooden cinema is more visually Express than television so and so television somewhere between if you like theatre and cinema,
the television dialogue is somewhere between $30 v Cinema Tyler is in in cinema dialogue is nowhere near as important as it isn't elevit.
When is the weed has to be carried on the dial of a lot more than it is the cinema.
We had when we're thinking of you know when we're thinking of dialogue it so we talk about elyos if we can you know you can interchange Cinema Tyler for television Tyler and if have the latest is quite the.
Have an evil within television use a certain kinds of television is more ways away cinematic weather / less Karen of a dial and other kinds of television are more in a theatrical that's it.
You had a mate that she became ready with pictures but that is a theory or if not a fact that's my the reference that the idea behind so proper is was that it was a story that you would tell through sound so back in the day.
Return on May or whatever they can turn on the TV and leave it on while they do.
The house work or whatever and then can still follow the story and I think that is an interesting test if you going on Young and the Restless and sound in the other room you can still follow what's going on but that would be a lot harder with say Breaking Bad or The Sopranos.
All magic shows that really pushed the kind of visual poll ASB.